docs/pages/docs/faqs.mdx, before:

import { Callout } from "nextra-theme-docs";

# FAQs

## Why Don't You Provide a `styled` API?

Long story short: it's unnecessary.

`cva` encourages you to think of components as traditional CSS classes:

- Less JavaScript is better
- They're framework agnostic; truly reusable
- Polymorphism is free; just apply the class to your preferred HTML element
- Less opinionated; you're free to build components with `cva` however you'd like

<details>

{" "}

<summary>Example: Polymorphic Components</summary>

There's no `as` prop in `cva`, because HTML is free:

```diff
-- // A familiar `styled` button as a link
-- <Button as="a" href="#" variant="primary">Button as a link</Button>

++ // A `cva` button as a link
++ <a href="#" class={button({variant: "primary"})}>Button as a link</a>
```

</details>

## How Can I Create [Responsive Variants like Stitches.js](https://stitches.dev/docs/responsive-styles#responsive-variants)?

You can't.

`cva` doesn't know about how you choose to apply CSS clases, and it doesn't want to.

We recommend either:

- Showing/hiding elements with different variants, based on your preferred breakpoint.

<details>

<summary>Example: With Tailwind</summary>

```tsx
export const Example = () => (
  <>
    <div className="hidden sm:inline-flex">
      <button className={button({ intent: "primary" })}>Hidden until sm</button>
    </div>
    <div className="inline-flex sm:hidden">
      <button className={button({ intent: "secondary" })}>
        Hidden after sm
      </button>
    </div>
  </>
);
```

</details>

- Create a bespoke variant that changes based on the breakpoint.

  _e.g. `button({ intent: "primaryUntilMd" })`_

<Callout type="info">

This is something I've been thinking about since the project's inception, and I've gone back and forth many times on the idea of building it. It's a large undertaking and brings all the complexity of supporting many different build tools and frameworks.

In my experience, "responsive variants" are typically rare, and hiding/showing different elements is usually good enough to get by.

To be frank, I'm probably not going to build/maintain a solution unless someone periodically gives me a thick wad of cash to do so, and even then I'd probably rather spend my free time living my life.

</Callout>

Commit message:

docs: mention rcva styled api

docs/pages/docs/faqs.mdx, after:

import { Callout } from "nextra-theme-docs";

# FAQs

## Why Don't You Provide a `styled` API?

Long story short: it's unnecessary.

`cva` encourages you to think of components as traditional CSS classes:

- Less JavaScript is better
- They're framework agnostic; truly reusable
- Polymorphism is free; just apply the class to your preferred HTML element
- Less opinionated; you're free to build components with `cva` however you'd like

<details>

{" "}

<summary>Example: Polymorphic Components</summary>

There's no `as` prop in `cva`, because HTML is free:

```diff
-- // A familiar `styled` button as a link
-- <Button as="a" href="#" variant="primary">Button as a link</Button>

++ // A `cva` button as a link
++ <a href="#" class={button({variant: "primary"})}>Button as a link</a>
```

If you still prefer a `styled` API for react, check out [rcva](https://www.npmjs.com/package/rcva).

</details>

## How Can I Create [Responsive Variants like Stitches.js](https://stitches.dev/docs/responsive-styles#responsive-variants)?

You can't.

`cva` doesn't know about how you choose to apply CSS clases, and it doesn't want to.

We recommend either:

- Showing/hiding elements with different variants, based on your preferred breakpoint.

<details>

<summary>Example: With Tailwind</summary>

```tsx
export const Example = () => (
  <>
    <div className="hidden sm:inline-flex">
      <button className={button({ intent: "primary" })}>Hidden until sm</button>
    </div>
    <div className="inline-flex sm:hidden">
      <button className={button({ intent: "secondary" })}>
        Hidden after sm
      </button>
    </div>
  </>
);
```

</details>

- Create a bespoke variant that changes based on the breakpoint.

  _e.g. `button({ intent: "primaryUntilMd" })`_

<Callout type="info">

This is something I've been thinking about since the project's inception, and I've gone back and forth many times on the idea of building it. It's a large undertaking and brings all the complexity of supporting many different build tools and frameworks.

In my experience, "responsive variants" are typically rare, and hiding/showing different elements is usually good enough to get by.

To be frank, I'm probably not going to build/maintain a solution unless someone periodically gives me a thick wad of cash to do so, and even then I'd probably rather spend my free time living my life.

</Callout>
