docs/beta/pages/docs/api-reference.mdx, before:

import { Callout } from "nextra-theme-docs";

# API Reference

<Callout type="warning">

**You are currently viewing the docs for `cva@beta`**  
For stable documentation, please visit [cva.style](https://cva.style).

</Callout>

## `cva`

Builds a `cva` component

```ts
import { cva } from "cva";

const component = cva(options);
```

### Parameters

1. `options`
   - `base`: the base class name (`string`, `string[]` or other [`clsx` value](https://github.com/lukeed/clsx#input))
   - `variants`: your variants schema
   - `compoundVariants`: variants based on a combination of previously defined variants
   - `defaultVariants`: set default values for previously defined variants.

### Returns

A `cva` component function

## `cx`

Concatenates class names (an alias of [`clsx`](https://github.com/lukeed/clsx))

```ts
const className = cx(classes);
```

### Parameters

- `classes`: array of classes to be concatenated ([see `clsx` usage](https://github.com/lukeed/clsx#input))

### Returns

`string`

## `compose`

Shallow merges any number of `cva` components into a single component.

```ts
import { compose } from "cva";

const composedComponent = compose(options);
```

### Parameters

`options`: array of `cva` components

### Returns

A `cva` component function

## `defineConfig`

Generate `cva`, `cx` and `compose` functions based on your preferred configuration.

Store in a `cva.config.ts` file, and import across your project.

```ts
import { cva } from "cva";

// cva.config.ts
export const { cva, cx, compose } = defineConfig(options);
```

1. `options`
   - `hooks`
     - `cx:done`: returns a concatenated class string of all `cx` contents (also used internally by `cva`)

Commit message:

Rename `cx:done` to `onComplete`, Fix `compose` Prop Types (#208)
* chore: rename 'cx:done' hook to 'onComplete'

* fix: compose prop types

docs/beta/pages/docs/api-reference.mdx, after:

import { Callout } from "nextra-theme-docs";

# API Reference

<Callout type="warning">

**You are currently viewing the docs for `cva@beta`**  
For stable documentation, please visit [cva.style](https://cva.style).

</Callout>

## `cva`

Builds a `cva` component

```ts
import { cva } from "cva";

const component = cva(options);
```

### Parameters

1. `options`
   - `base`: the base class name (`string`, `string[]` or other [`clsx` value](https://github.com/lukeed/clsx#input))
   - `variants`: your variants schema
   - `compoundVariants`: variants based on a combination of previously defined variants
   - `defaultVariants`: set default values for previously defined variants.

### Returns

A `cva` component function

## `cx`

Concatenates class names (an alias of [`clsx`](https://github.com/lukeed/clsx))

```ts
const className = cx(classes);
```

### Parameters

- `classes`: array of classes to be concatenated ([see `clsx` usage](https://github.com/lukeed/clsx#input))

### Returns

`string`

## `compose`

Shallow merges any number of `cva` components into a single component.

```ts
import { compose } from "cva";

const composedComponent = compose(options);
```

### Parameters

`options`: array of `cva` components

### Returns

A `cva` component function

## `defineConfig`

Generate `cva`, `cx` and `compose` functions based on your preferred configuration.

Store in a `cva.config.ts` file, and import across your project.

```ts
import { cva } from "cva";

// cva.config.ts
export const { cva, cx, compose } = defineConfig(options);
```

1. `options`
   - `hooks`
     - `onComplete`: returns a concatenated class string of all classes passed to `cx`, `cva` or `compose`.
