docs/beta/src/content/docs/getting-started/installation.mdx, before:

---
title: Installation
---

import { Tabs, TabItem } from "@astrojs/starlight/components";

:::caution
**You are currently viewing the docs for `cva@beta`**
For stable documentation, please visit [cva.style](https://cva.style).
:::

<Tabs>
  <TabItem label="pnpm">

    ```sh
    pnpm i cva@beta
    ```

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem label="npm">

    ```sh
    npm i cva@beta
    ```

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem label="yarn">

    ```sh
    yarn add cva@beta
    ```

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem label="bun">

    ```sh
    bun add cva@beta
    ```

  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Tailwind CSS

If you're a Tailwind user, here are some additional (optional) steps to get the most out of `cva`:

### IntelliSense

You can enable autocompletion inside `cva` using the steps below:

<Tabs>
  <TabItem label="Visual Studio Code">

    1. [Install the "Tailwind CSS IntelliSense" Visual Studio Code extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=bradlc.vscode-tailwindcss)

    2. Add the following to your [`.vscode/settings.json`](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/getstarted/settings):

    ```json
    {
      "tailwindCSS.experimental.classRegex": [
        ["cva\\(([^)]*)\\)", "[\"'`]?([^\"'`]+)[\"'`]?"],
        ["cx\\(([^)]*)\\)", "(?:'|\"|`)([^']*)(?:'|\"|`)"]
      ]
    }
    ```

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem label="Zed">

    Add the following to your [`.zed/settings.json`](https://zed.dev/docs/configuring-zed#settings-files):

    ```json
    {
      "lsp": {
        "tailwindcss-language-server": {
          "settings": {
            "experimental": {
              "classRegex": [
                ["cva\\(([^)]*)\\)", "[\"'`]?([^\"'`]+)[\"'`]?"],
                ["cx\\(([^)]*)\\)", "(?:'|\"|`)([^']*)(?:'|\"|`)"]
              ]
            }
          }
        }
      }
    }
    ```

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem label="Neovim">

    1. [Install the extension](https://github.com/neovim/nvim-lspconfig/blob/master/doc/server_configurations.md#tailwindcss)

    2. Add the following configuration:

    ```lua
    require 'lspconfig'.tailwindcss.setup({
      settings = {
        tailwindCSS = {
          experimental = {
            classRegex = {
              { "cva\\(([^)]*)\\)", "[\"'`]([^\"'`]*).*?[\"'`]" },
              { "cx\\(([^)]*)\\)", "(?:'|\"|`)([^']*)(?:'|\"|`)" }
            },
          },
        },
      },
    })
    ```

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem label="WebStorm">

    1. Check the version. Available for [WebStorm 2023.1](https://www.jetbrains.com/webstorm/whatsnew/#version-2023-1-tailwind-css-configuration) and later

    2. Open the settings. Go to [Languages and Frameworks | Style Sheets | Tailwind CSS](https://www.jetbrains.com/help/webstorm/tailwind-css.html#ws_css_tailwind_configuration)

    3. Add the following to your tailwind configuration

    ```json
    {
      "experimental": {
        "classRegex": [
          ["cva\\(([^)]*)\\)", "[\"'`]?([^\"'`]+)[\"'`]?"],
          ["cx\\(([^)]*)\\)", "(?:'|\"|`)([^']*)(?:'|\"|`)"]
        ]
      }
    }
    ```

  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Handling Style Conflicts

Although `cva`'s API is designed to help you avoid styling conflicts, there's still a small margin of error.

If you're keen to lift that burden altogether, check out the wonderful [`tailwind-merge`](https://github.com/dcastil/tailwind-merge) package.

For bulletproof components, extend `cva` with `twMerge`.

<details>

<summary>Example with tailwind-merge</summary>

```ts filename="cva.config.ts"
import { defineConfig } from "cva";
import { twMerge } from "tailwind-merge";

export const { cva, cx, compose } = defineConfig({
  hooks: {
    onComplete: (className) => twMerge(className),
  },
});
```

```ts filename="components/button.ts"
import { cx, cva } from "../cva.config";

export const button = cva({
  // 1. `twMerge` strips out `bg-gray-200`…
  base: "font-semibold bg-gray-200 border rounded",
  variants: {
    intent: {
      // 2. …as variant `bg-*` values take precedence
      primary: "bg-blue-500 text-white border-transparent hover:bg-blue-600",
      secondary: "bg-white text-gray-800 border-gray-400 hover:bg-gray-100",
    },
  }
  defaultVariants: {
    intent: "primary",
  },
});

button();
// => "font-semibold border rounded bg-blue-500 text-white border-transparent hover:bg-blue-600 text-base py-2 px-4 uppercase"

cx("bg-gray-200", "bg-blue-500");
// => "bg-blue-500"
```

</details>

Commit message:

Extend Component Documentation (#176)
* feat: compound components

* docs: link to compound component example

* docs: kick off compound components page

* fix: prettier and syncpack failures

* docs: update example to include boolean variants

* chore(vue): include boolean variant

* chore(astro-with-tailwindcss): include boolean variant

* chore(react-with-tailwindcss): include boolean variant

* chore(react-with-css-modules): include boolean variant

* chore(svelte): include boolean variant

* docs: polymorphism

* chore(react-with-tailwindcss-compound): tidy

* feat: compound docs

* fix: sync versions

* Update packages/cva/package.json

* chore: kick off beta examples

* chore: create latest examples dir

* chore: add beta examples

* chore: add stackblitz embeds to beta pages

* chore: revert manual branch override

* docs: compound components

* chore: tidy up

docs/beta/src/content/docs/getting-started/installation.mdx, after:

---
title: Installation
---

import { Tabs, TabItem } from "@astrojs/starlight/components";

:::caution
**You are currently viewing the docs for `cva@beta`**
For stable documentation, please visit [cva.style](https://cva.style).
:::

<Tabs>
  <TabItem label="pnpm">

    ```sh
    pnpm i cva@beta
    ```

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem label="npm">

    ```sh
    npm i cva@beta
    ```

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem label="yarn">

    ```sh
    yarn add cva@beta
    ```

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem label="bun">

    ```sh
    bun add cva@beta
    ```

  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Tailwind CSS

If you're a Tailwind user, here are some additional (optional) steps to get the most out of `cva`:

### IntelliSense

You can enable autocompletion inside `cva` using the steps below:

<Tabs>
  <TabItem label="Visual Studio Code">

    1. [Install the "Tailwind CSS IntelliSense" Visual Studio Code extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=bradlc.vscode-tailwindcss)

    2. Add the following to your [`.vscode/settings.json`](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/getstarted/settings):

    ```json
    {
      "tailwindCSS.experimental.classRegex": [
        ["cva\\(([^)]*)\\)", "[\"'`]?([^\"'`]+)[\"'`]?"],
        ["cx\\(([^)]*)\\)", "(?:'|\"|`)([^']*)(?:'|\"|`)"]
      ]
    }
    ```

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem label="Zed">

    Add the following to your [`.zed/settings.json`](https://zed.dev/docs/configuring-zed#settings-files):

    ```json
    {
      "lsp": {
        "tailwindcss-language-server": {
          "settings": {
            "experimental": {
              "classRegex": [
                ["cva\\(([^)]*)\\)", "[\"'`]?([^\"'`]+)[\"'`]?"],
                ["cx\\(([^)]*)\\)", "(?:'|\"|`)([^']*)(?:'|\"|`)"]
              ]
            }
          }
        }
      }
    }
    ```

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem label="Neovim">

    1. [Install the extension](https://github.com/neovim/nvim-lspconfig/blob/master/doc/server_configurations.md#tailwindcss)

    2. Add the following configuration:

    ```lua
    require 'lspconfig'.tailwindcss.setup({
      settings = {
        tailwindCSS = {
          experimental = {
            classRegex = {
              { "cva\\(([^)]*)\\)", "[\"'`]([^\"'`]*).*?[\"'`]" },
              { "cx\\(([^)]*)\\)", "(?:'|\"|`)([^']*)(?:'|\"|`)" }
            },
          },
        },
      },
    })
    ```

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem label="WebStorm">

    1. Check the version. Available for [WebStorm 2023.1](https://www.jetbrains.com/webstorm/whatsnew/#version-2023-1-tailwind-css-configuration) and later

    2. Open the settings. Go to [Languages and Frameworks | Style Sheets | Tailwind CSS](https://www.jetbrains.com/help/webstorm/tailwind-css.html#ws_css_tailwind_configuration)

    3. Add the following to your tailwind configuration

    ```json
    {
      "experimental": {
        "classRegex": [
          ["cva\\(([^)]*)\\)", "[\"'`]?([^\"'`]+)[\"'`]?"],
          ["cx\\(([^)]*)\\)", "(?:'|\"|`)([^']*)(?:'|\"|`)"]
        ]
      }
    }
    ```

  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Handling Style Conflicts

If you want to merge Tailwind CSS classes without conflicts, you may wish to [roll-your-own `cva`](../api-reference#defineconfig) with the [`tailwind-merge`](https://github.com/dcastil/tailwind-merge) package:

<details>

<summary>Example with tailwind-merge</summary>

```ts filename="cva.config.ts"
import { defineConfig } from "cva";
import { twMerge } from "tailwind-merge";

export const { cva, cx, compose } = defineConfig({
  hooks: {
    onComplete: (className) => twMerge(className),
  },
});
```

```ts filename="components/button.ts"
import { cx, cva } from "../cva.config";

export const button = cva({
  // 1. `twMerge` strips out `bg-gray-200`…
  base: "font-semibold bg-gray-200 border rounded",
  variants: {
    intent: {
      // 2. …as variant `bg-*` values take precedence
      primary: "bg-blue-500 text-white border-transparent hover:bg-blue-600",
      secondary: "bg-white text-gray-800 border-gray-400 hover:bg-gray-100",
    },
  }
  defaultVariants: {
    intent: "primary",
  },
});

button();
// => "font-semibold border rounded bg-blue-500 text-white border-transparent hover:bg-blue-600 text-base py-2 px-4 uppercase"

cx("bg-gray-200", "bg-blue-500");
// => "bg-blue-500"
```

</details>
